
  “So close behind some promontory lie The huge Leviathan to attend
  their prey, And give no chance, but swallow in the fry, Which through
  their gaping jaws mistake the way.” —_Dryden’s Annus Mirabilis_.



  “While the whale is floating at the stern of the ship, they cut off
  his head, and tow it with a boat as near the shore as it will come;
  but it will be aground in twelve or thirteen feet water.” —_Thomas
  Edge’s Ten Voyages to Spitzbergen, in Purchas_.

  “In their way they saw many whales sporting in the ocean, and in
  wantonness fuzzing up the water through their pipes and vents, which
  nature has placed on their shoulders.” —_Sir T. Herbert’s Voyages
  into Asia and Africa. Harris Coll_.

  “Here they saw such huge troops of whales, that they were forced to
  proceed with a great deal of caution for fear they should run their
  ship upon them.” —_Schouten’s Sixth Circumnavigation_.

  “We set sail from the Elbe, wind N.E. in the ship called The
  Jonas-in-the-Whale.... Some say the whale can’t open his mouth, but
  that is a fable.... They frequently climb up the masts to see whether
  they can see a whale, for the first discoverer has a ducat for his
  pains.... I was told of a whale taken near Shetland, that had above a
  barrel of herrings in his belly.... One of our harpooneers told me
  that he caught once a whale in Spitzbergen that was white all over.”
  —_A Voyage to Greenland, A.D._ 1671. _Harris Coll_.

  “Several whales have come in upon this coast (Fife) Anno 1652, one
  eighty feet in length of the whale-bone kind came in, which (as I was
  informed), besides a vast quantity of oil, did afford 500 weight of
  baleen. The jaws of it stand for a gate in the garden of Pitferren.”
  —_Sibbald’s Fife and Kinross_.

  “Myself have agreed to try whether I can master and kill this
  Sperma-ceti whale, for I could never hear of any of that sort that
  was killed by any man, such is his fierceness and swiftness.”
  —_Richard Strafford’s Letter from the Bermudas. Phil. Trans. A.D._
  1668.

  “Whales in the sea God’s voice obey.” —_N. E. Primer_.

  “We saw also abundance of large whales, there being more in those
  southern seas, as I may say, by a hundred to one; than we have to the
  northward of us.” —_Captain Cowley’s Voyage round the Globe, A.D._
  1729.

  “... and the breath of the whale is frequently attended with such an
  insupportable smell, as to bring on a disorder of the brain.”
  —_Ulloa’s South America_.


  “To fifty chosen sylphs of special note, We trust the important
  charge, the petticoat. Oft have we known that seven-fold fence to
  fail, Tho’ stuffed with hoops and armed with ribs of whale.” —_Rape
  of the Lock_.



  “If we compare land animals in respect to magnitude, with those that
  take up their abode in the deep, we shall find they will appear
  contemptible in the comparison. The whale is doubtless the largest
  animal in creation.” —_Goldsmith, Nat. Hist_.

  “If you should write a fable for little fishes, you would make them
  speak like great whales.” —_Goldsmith to Johnson_.

  “In the afternoon we saw what was supposed to be a rock, but it was
  found to be a dead whale, which some Asiatics had killed, and were
  then towing ashore. They seemed to endeavor to conceal themselves
  behind the whale, in order to avoid being seen by us.” —_Cook’s
  Voyages_.

  “The larger whales, they seldom venture to attack. They stand in so
  great dread of some of them, that when out at sea they are afraid to
  mention even their names, and carry dung, lime-stone, juniper-wood,
  and some other articles of the same nature in their boats, in order
  to terrify and prevent their too near approach.” —_Uno Von Troil’s
  Letters on Banks’s and Solander’s Voyage to Iceland in_ 1772.

  “The Spermacetti Whale found by the Nantuckois, is an active, fierce
  animal, and requires vast address and boldness in the fishermen.”
  —_Thomas Jefferson’s Whale Memorial to the French minister in_ 1778.

  “And pray, sir, what in the world is equal to it?” —_Edmund Burke’s
  reference in Parliament to the Nantucket Whale-Fishery_.

  “Spain—a great whale stranded on the shores of Europe.” —_Edmund
  Burke_. (_somewhere_.)

  “A tenth branch of the king’s ordinary revenue, said to be grounded
  on the consideration of his guarding and protecting the seas from
  pirates and robbers, is the right to _royal_ fish, which are whale
  and sturgeon. And these, when either thrown ashore or caught near the
  coast, are the property of the king.” —_Blackstone_.


  “Soon to the sport of death the crews repair: Rodmond unerring o’er
  his head suspends The barbed steel, and every turn attends.”
